Karen CudjoeCS 342Guide 11.	Chapter 1a.	Compare and contrast data, databases, database (management) systems and information systems.•	Data: Known facts that can be recorded and that have implicit meaning. •	Database: A collection of related data. A database has some source from which data is derived, some degree of interaction with events in the real world, and an audience that is actively interested in its contents.•	Database Management Systems (DBMS): A computerized system that enables users to create and maintain a database. The DBMS is a general-purpose software system that facilitates the processes of defining, constructing, manipulating and sharing databases among various users and applications.•	Information Systems: An information system is any organized system for the collection, organization, storage and communication of information (Wikipedia). They don’t always involve computers. There's more project management, people and processes involved. Information Systems is bringing value to organizations through information.Databases are the data or the things in the warehouse and DBMS is the distribution centers E.G. Oracle.  b.	Compare and contrast database systems with the following, using the main characteristics of the database approach in your discussion.i.	data structures and algorithmsA database management system (DBMS) is a computerized system that enables users to create and maintain a database. Data structures are the way the data is stored. They have algorithms built in that might modify the data. Like database systems, they are used to construct and manipulate data. Data Structure refers to the actual implementation of the data type and offers a way of storing data in an efficient manner. The main objective of a data structure is to organize data to suit a specific purpose so that data can be accessed and worked both efficiently and effectively. Data Structure may be designed to store data for the purpose of working on it by using different algorithms for searching or sorting data. Algorithms are the essential aspect of data structures and as there are many algorithms for searching and sorting, they differ in terms of efficiency. When efficiency is involved, it would be nice to have metrics for comparing algorithm efficiency.Users are able to define operations for both database systems and data structures. Databases have self-describing data, and come with multiple views, allowing multiple users to view varying data. 
ii.	traditional file systems-	Database systems actually know the data and the structure of the data they manage at a very deep level, but the lowest-level data item for file systems is typically the page. -	Traditional file systems act locally whereas DBMS saves directly in a database. -	Traditional file systems save in temporary locations whereas DBMS saves in well-arranged and permanent data base locations -	In traditional file systems, transactions are not possible where as various transactions like insert, delete, view, updating etc. are possible in DBMS-	In traditional file systems, a "File manager" is used to store all relationships in directories in File Systems where as a data base manager (administrator) stores the relationship in form of structural tables -	In traditional file systems data, will be accessed through single or various files whereas in DBMS, tables (schema) is used to access data -	Data in data bases are more secure compared to data in traditional file systems!!c.	Identify the stakeholders of database systems.-	End users-	Database Administrators & designers-	Application Programmers2.	Chapter 2  a.	Explain the significance of the categories of data models. Which type of model is displayed in Figure 2.1?Data models are a collection of concepts that can be used to describe the structure of a database – provides the necessary means to achieve data abstraction for a user. The data models are categorized based on the type of concepts they use to describe the database structure. -	High-level or conceptual data models provide concepts that are close to the way many users perceive data. These concepts are generally meant for end users who have no technical background.-	Representational or implementation data model provides concepts that may be easily understood by end users but that are not too far removed from the way the data is organized in computer storage. This data models gives more details but it understood by non-technical end users. -	Low-level or physical data models provide concepts that describe the details of how data is tore on the computer storage media, typically magnetic disks. These concepts are generally meant for computer specialists, not for end users.  Figure 2.1 is a schema diagramb.	Explain the structure and significance of the three-schema architecture.The goal of the three-schema architecture, is to separate the user applications from the physical database. In this architecture, schemas can be defined at the following three levels:  •	The internal level has an internal schema, which describes the physical storage structure of the database. •	The conceptual level has a conceptual schema, which describes the structure of the whole database for a community of users. •	The external or view level which includes a number of external schemas or user views. Each external schema describes the part of the database that a particular user group is interested in and hides the rest of the database from that user group. The three-schema architecture is a convenient tool with which the user can visualize the schema levels in a database system.  
c.	Explain the tiers used in a typical web-based information system.Three-Tier and n-Tier Architectures for Web Applications  Many Web applications use an architecture called the three-tier architecture, which adds an intermediate layer between the client and the database server.  -	The bottom layer includes all data management services. -	The middle layer can also act as a Web server, plays an intermediary role by running application programs and storing business rules that are used to access data from the database server. -	The top layer which is the client layer or the presentation layer displays information to the user and allows data entry.   