Karen Cudjoe
CS 342
Guide 14
5/9/2017

1. Read Section 30.1:
a. Name and explain the four kinds of control measures required for database security.
- Access control
DBMS must include provisions for restricting access to the database system as a whole. This function, called access control, is handled by creating user accounts and passwords to control the login process by the DBMS. 
- Inference control
Security for statistical databases must ensure that information about individuals cannot be accessed. 
It is sometimes possible to deduce or infer certain facts concerning individuals from queries that involve only summary statistics on groups; consequently, this must not be permitted either. 
This problem, called statistical database security. 
- Flow control
Prevents information from flowing in such a way that it reaches unauthorized users. 
- Data encryption
Used to protect sensitive data (such as credit card numbers) that is transmitted via some type of communications network. 

b. Compare and contrast information security and information privacy.
Security in information technology refers to many aspects of protecting a system from unauthorized use, including authentication of users, information encryption, access control, firewall policies, and intrusion detection. For our purposes here, we will limit our treatment of security to the concepts associated with how well a system can protect access to information it contains. 
The concept of privacy goes beyond security. Privacy examines how well the use of personal information that the system acquires about a user conforms to the explicit or implicit assumptions regarding that use. From an end user perspective, privacy can be considered from two different perspectives: preventing storage of personal information versus ensuring appropriate use of personal information.
For the purposes of this chapter, a simple but useful definition of privacy is the ability of individuals to control the terms under which their personal information is acquired and used. In summary, security involves technology to ensure that information is appropriately protected. Security is a required building block for privacy. Privacy involves mechanisms to support compliance with some basic principles and other explicitly stated policies. 


2. Read Imperva’s Top 5 Database Security Threats.
a. Name and explain the security threats discussed in the article.
i. Excessive, inappropriate and unused privileges
When you grant someone database privileges that exceed the requirements of their job function, these privileges can be abused. 

ii. Privilege abuse
Misusing privileged service accounts to access sensitive data directly, bypassing the application interface. 

iii. Insufficient web application security
Most organizations rely heavily on apps to interface with customers. There are many types of attacks on applications that can expose data. Two common types of web application attacks that target databases are SQL Injection and Web Shell.

iv. Weak audit trails
Threats caused by insufficient internal processes or gaps. The failure to monitor for both security and compliance anomalies and collect the appropriate audit details of database activity represents a serious organizational risk at many levels.

v. Unsecured storage media
Unprotected backup storage media. Numerous security breaches have involved the theft or incidental exposure of database backup disks and tapes. Taking the appropriate measures to protect backup copies of sensitive data is not only a data security best practice, but also mandated by many regulations.